Shop your Closet for girls

look at what a good closet contains
add all your items to your closet
*  your name
*  email
*  season:  winter, spring, summer, fall
*  apparelType:  accessories, activewear, bras, boats, dresses, jackets, jeans, leggings, pajamas, robes, panties, pants, shoes, shorts, sweaters, skirts, slippers, socks, sports bras, swimsuits, tops
*  size
*  color
*  short description
*  detailed description

see if your closet has all the proper items
user may choose to donate an item.
user clicks on button and the item is removed from your closet and added to public closet
user may view her own closet or the public closet
user may choose an item from the public closet and add it to her own closet.  The owner is notified of the transfer and is given instructions to package the item and leave it on her doorstep and the user gets the address of the item's owner and instructions that she must pick it up from the owner's doorstep in 24 hours.
user can add items to her personal closet
donate items (delete items that are no longer useful)
publicize items that can be used by others 

Adult Woman:
https://blog.stitchfix.com/fashion-tips/12-wardrobe-essentials-lifestyle/
1.  1 button-up shirt
2.  1 little black dress
3.  1 pr. pumps
4.  1 jean jacket
5.  1 simple flats
6.  1 dark wash skinny jeans
7.  1 crisp white tee
8.  1 kit sweater
9.  1 pr. ankle boots
10. 1 pr black pants
11. 1 knee length skirt
12. 1 wrap dress


fall:  adult women
https://blog.stitchfix.com/trends/10-fall-style-essentials/
1.  classic white button-down
2.  carryall tote
3.  knit dress
4.  fleece hoodie
5.  layer able leggings
6.  jeans
7.  plaid button-down
8.  cargo jacket
9.  ankle booties
10. chunky knit sweater

teen girl:
https://www.wikihow.com/Create-the-Perfect-Wardrobe-(Teenage-Girls)
1.  Underclothes
*  Undies: 15 pairs is a good amount. 
   Include boyshorts or briefs for every day, a few pairs of seamless and one or two prettier pairs.
*  Bras: 2 sports bras if you do sports, 4 everyday bras in nude, white, black or pastel shades, 1 strapless bra and 1 push up bras. 
   Try to stay away from darker colors as they can show through tops.
*  Camisoles. Camis are definitely a major fashion staple in any teen girl's wardrobe. They are great for layering and almost every clothing store has them. Choose neutral colors first - white, black, grey, neutral. Once you have finished your wardrobe, you can go back for colors.
*  Tank tops. 2 tight or loose tank tops - sugar lips are a great brand.
*  Socks: 10 pairs of everyday ankles socks, 3 pairs of trainer liners and a 3 pairs of knee high or over the knee socks. 1 pr fluffy or slipper socks.

2.  Sleepwear
*  Pajamas:  3 for warm weather, 3 for cold weather
   Think about the weather and time of year. In summer, some people prefer to wear just a baggy t-shirt or cami, or if you get cold in winter, sleep in a big sweater or hoodie with pajama pants.

3.  Bottoms
Have a variety of stylish and versatile bottoms. 
*  2 pairs of pants
*  4 skirts
*  2 pairs lounging sweatpants
*  1 nice floral skirt for summer months
   Every girl should have a nice floral skirt for the summer months. High waisted and low rise shorts are great as well. A pair of dark wash skinny jeans and a pair of embellished jeans will make perfect additions to your wardrobe (have a few pairs). For a unique pair of jeans, try bell-bottom jeans. Don't forget leggings! Try to find fancy sweatpants and of course, regular baggy sweats too!
*  Sweatpants: two pairs will be perfect. 
   Make sure they are good quality, have a good fit (not too baggy or tight), and match with at least two of your outfits.
*  Jeans: 3 pair:
   Try to buy mostly dark or medium washed jeans as these are the most versatile, but don't be afraid to buy a colored, patterned, faded, embellished or stonewashed pair if you love them.

4.  Tops
*  13 tops:
*  4 tunics/smart tops
*  6 graphic tees/everyday tops
*  3 cams
*  3 long sleeved tees
*  2 lounging tees
*  3 cardigans
*  4 hoodies
   Get some quality tops that are stylish and suit you. Basically, any tops that suit your style will do. Stay away from baggy t-shirts. Flowing tops are nice, as are sweaters. Get a variety of colors and styles and don't get into the habit of buying the same shirt in every single color just because you like it that much.

5.  Outerwear and Seasonal (north or midwest:
*  1 ski jacket
*  2 everyday coats
*  1 light coat
*  1 vest


6.  Dresses for different occasions
*  one or two formal dresses
*  3 semi-formal
*  4 casual (includes sundresses)
1 black dress
5 other dresses
A longer dress looks great on tall girls. Try to get them in different styles and colors that suit you well. Some should be for partying, some less casual, like church.

7.  Shoes
*  1 pr athletic shoes 
*  1 pr non-athletic sneakers (Converse, Vans or Nike blazers These are great for the mall, park or a friends house.)
*  2 pr sandals (beach or walking)
*  1 pr long black boots
*  1 pr hiking boots
*  2 pos of flats
   It's good to have a couple of pairs of flats because they go with a lot of outfits. Bright colors or pretty patterns always complete the outfit and make your whole look change. Have back up always, and maybe a pair of regular blacks or greys in handy.
*  2 prs of heels.  one black and one other color

8.  Accessories
*  10 prs earrings
*  1 pr faux pearls and one pr faux diamonds
*  scarves:  a few bright colors and cool patters


Wardrobe Basics 
https://www.realsimple.com/beauty-fashion/clothing/wardrobe-basics/wardrobe-basics-checklist?print

Always in Season:
1.  black tank
    A white tank has its place—at the gym or on casual outings—but a black one is more universal. Dress it up with dark jeans or a skirt.
2.  short-sleeved white t-shirt
    White tees become unwearable quickly, so skip the costly designer versions and buy a bunch of good-looking inexpensive ones. Then replace as needed.
3.  short-sleeved black t-shirt
    The best short-sleeve length is about 1/2 to 1 inch longer than a typical cap sleeve—it shows just the right amount of arm.
4.  long-sleeved white t-shirt
    For a trim silhouette in white, choose a slim-fit T-shirt that skims your body but doesn't cling.
5.  long-sleeved black t-shirt
    A surprisingly sophisticated layering piece, this works well under a dress shirt—or even a dress.
6.  black turtleneck
    Consider investing in cashmere: You get more warmth with less bulk.
7.  white button-down shirt (one cotton, one silky)  
    Fitted ones will get the most wear: They're easier to tuck in and look neat when left out.
8.  crisp white blouse
    Softer looking than a button-down, a white blouse is a timeless addition to any wardrobe.

9.  crewneck sweater
    Thin knits, in cotton or wool, layer easily for versatility and comfort.
10.  cardigan
    A neutral shade goes with everything, and a longer style that hits at the hip flatters most figures.
11.  a black dress
    The “little black dress” is a cliche for a reason: It’s a wardrobe necessity.
12.  pencil skirt
    This classic piece should be tailored so it grazes the tops of the knees.
13.  jeans
     It's worth paying extra for jeans that fit and flatter. Your best bet? A dark, bootcut pair made from stretch denim with no more than 2 percent Lycra. (The fabric will follow your curves while keeping its shape.)
14.  black pants
     To get the most from this wardrobe staple, select a style made of an all-season fabric, like tropical wool or viscose.
15.  skinny jeans
     Once considered a trend, they are now a denim staple. Skinny jeans look best when they don’t fit too snugly at the waist.
16.  khaki pants
     For a casual, comfortable look, forget the pleats (a flat front is more flattering) and forgo the front crease.
17.  denim jacket
     A dark wash and a slim fit look the most polished.
18.  cropped jacket
     Made famous by Coco Chanel, this item has become a fashion mainstay. You’ll have more opportunities for pairing with one in a solid color or traditional tweed.
19.  black cashmere wrap
     A fabric that was once seen only in fall and winter has become a year-round regular.
10.  ballet flats (in a neutral or a versatile red)
     Equal parts sophisticated and practical, ballet flats, especially those with rubber soles, are easy on the feet but more polished than sneakers.
11.  basic black pumps
     The workhorse of shoes, a good black pump can take you from day into evening without losing a step.
12.  metallic evening shoes
     No shoes make you more party-ready than strappy sandals or pumps in a metallic tone. The surprise? Gold and silver are remarkably versatile.
http://www.houseforsix.com/blog/useforfive.com/2013/08/purging-closet-30-piece-wardrobe-free.html

